---
layout: post
title:  "📚 Her"
created: ["31-March-2022 21:42"]
categories: [Summarized, Book]
tags: [Reviews, Summary, Book, Poetry, "2017"]
toc: true
comment: true
---

Author
: Pierre A Jeanty, Tremanda P., Omar R.

Year of release
: 2017

Genre
: Poetry 

Pages
: 162

Average WPM
: 234

Date Started - Finished
: 15-Feb-2022 to 16-Feb-2022

Time took
: 4.18 Hours

---

## About the book
## Who Should Read It?
- People (mainly females, since its written for them lol) who want to find their worth

## Top Poems
---

>	Desiring a man
	whose efforts speak
	in a higher tone
	than his promises,
	isn’t too much to ask for


>	She is far more than
	what meets the eyes;
	you will not recognize
	how beautiful she is
	until you start looking
	at the things the eyes can’t see.


>	If she cannot dance without care,
	laugh and tell you about the most
	embarrassing moments in her life.
	She is not yet free in your presence.
	She is in love when she finds comfort
	in your presence.

>	Your love
	will only
	be priceless
	to someone
	who recognizes
	your worth.
	If you
	do not
	recognize this,
	you too
	have not
	recognized your worth.

>	Until you truly realize
	that you are a queen,
	jokers will invite themselves
	into your heart masking themselves as kings

>	If loving them means
	not loving you,
	it is not love,
	but lust playing
	it’s trick on you

>	People have a strange way
	of telling you that they are guilty,
	they will start by acting as if they are not.

>	Love is a marathon,
	but she kept running into sprinters

>	She loves him
	more than he’ll ever know,
	and he loves her
	more than he’ll ever show.
	What a tragedy.

>	If you cannot serve her your heart,
	do not set a table of hope for her.
	Do not serve her lies and
	feed her false promises

>	Her kindness made her one of a kind.
	Her confidence made her beautiful.
	Her heart of gold made her precious.

>	Perhaps if you wait
	for a husband
	and stop treating
	boyfriends as kings,
	you will no longer kiss the wrong frogs.